Welcome back in this final lecture in our crash course section of each team all we're going to quickly
discuss form selections basically we're just going to explore a few more form input types that require
some extra element Tex.
Let's get started.
All right here we are back in our basic watched him l file.
I have a form object and we're just going to cover three types of inputs extra ones and those are linking
radio buttons dropdown menus and text area inputs.
So let's create an example form for asking if someone owns a dog.
Or create a heading inside of this and say do you already own a dog.
Question mark.
Save this.
I refreshed the page and now I see do you already own a dog.
So what I can do is I can have an input type and the type I can provide is radio and if you just refresh
this you should now see a little radio button show up.
So let's give this some names and values.
So I'll say the name of this is dog choice and the value is yes.
And let's connect it to a label.
So the label will say call it.
Yes.
And then give it an idea of yes as well.
So that way we can connect this label to this radio button.
And also yes save that and when it refreshed us I now see the already own a dog.
Yes.
And then the radio button.
OK.
So that's a single radio button.
Often however you'll see multiple radio buttons and you'll see them connected to each other.
So what we can do for that is zoom out a little bit here and I'm going to copy and paste these values
so I see label again.
Except this time we'll have this setup for no I'll type out instead of four yes we'll make this no.
We'll make the label know as well and change the ID to be No.
We can still have the same name because we're basically going to connect this radio button to this radio
button.
So only one of them can be selected and that will change the value
save this refresh your page.
Now you'll notice you have a yes and no radio button.
So do you already own a dog.
Yes or no.
And notice when they click YES NO automatically gets de-selected.
And the reason that happens because these two input radio types are connected because they're sharing
the same name.
If I were to change one of these names for instance stock choice to save that refresh you'll notice
that all of a sudden I can actually select both if I want these to be connected.
I should set them up to have the same name which makes sense because that way when I actually submit
the form I'll just have a name and then select the value either yes or no.
So we'll save that and that's the basics of using a radio button.
And that's the basics of also linking or connecting to radio buttons.
All right.
So we already have the already own a dock set up and then the linked radio buttons to them.
We also have the option of using dropdown menu.
So let's come back in here and zoom in a bit we'll create a paragraph just asking someone how clean
is your house.
Let's say from 1 to 3 so we'll say three is the cleanest.
The next step of tag we're going to talk about is the select tag.
So the select 10 we can go ahead and not worry about class and that's going to be related to success
but we can give it a name we'll say something like stars for one two three stars.
How clean is the house.
And then instead of this we have option tags.
So we'll say option and then we can give a value here.
So our internal value will be great and we'll say 3 as the option that the user sees.
I will copy this two more times and we'll say this next one is good at level 2 and then we'll say this
last one is just bad.
So it's not a very clean house.
At one so let's save that and refresh.
And now I see how clean is your house.
That's that paragraphed how we have here.
And then we have this selection of various options.
And this is the dropdown menu so I can say 3 2 or 1.
And what happens is the viewer of your web site is going to see what's in between these options text
3 to one.
But when you actually submit this form you're going to connect this name to whatever value was chosen
just as we saw in the last lecture.
Instead of that you URL where we said the name is equal to some value in the same way that when you
submit this form you'll have Daag choice connected to either yes or no.
You'll have name stars connected to either great good or bad.
And this is how you can create a dropdown menu inside your form.
Lastly we can show you how to create a text area.
So I'll say any other comments inside of my form and then we'll say text area and here we can give it
a name we can give it a number of rows and number of columns that basically defines how large the text
area box should appear.
So if we save that and refresh then I get to see this text area box show up.
And in fact we can expand this so I can see that this is essentially just a large text box.
And if you wanted to be smaller.
All we need to do is release or reduce the number of columns.
So for instance I want three columns maybe by four rows.
Save those changes refresh and I'll get a much smaller box to begin with.
Keep in mind most browsers allow the user to automatically resize that text area once that's all done.
You can just have an input button at the end for submit type save that and then we should give it a
value something like Submit Feedback.
Save it refresh.
Now I see.
Any other comments.
Submit Feedback.
All right.
Let's finish off this lecture by actually submitting our form and expand my window here a bit.
We're just going to provide some general values.
You already own a dog.
I'll say yes.
How Clean Is Your House.
I'll say two and then any other comments.
I will say none.
Keep in mind that right now my form actually doesn't have an action parameter and that's because Wolfville
in the action attribute later if you don't actually fill it in what happens is you just end up refreshing
the page with the name value pairs.
So I have yes two and none hit Submit Feedback and now I get to see the name value pairs appear Mayerle
from the get method.
It says Daag choice is equal to yes Starrs is equal to good in name is equal to none.
Keep in mind it says stars is equal to good because that's a name value pair.
I chose back in the form so even though the user gets to see these three to ones if he come back down
here and take a look at the options three to 1.
That's what the user sees in the back and you're only dealing with name and value pairs.
OK so that's it for those extra.
Form selection types.
Won't be using them too often but you should be aware of them and you can check out the documentation
links from the previous lectures.
Inside those H.A. files to explore various other H.A. him forum types.
Keep in mind in the future we're going to be automating a lot of this through the use of a flask.
Thanks and we'll see at the next lecture where we're going to have just a quick final assessment for
the tonight crash course.